Renat IVANOV
Senior Software Engineer
Moscow
+7-999-000-4786
renat@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/renat
Experience
Sberbank PJSC
June 2018 – present
Senior Software Engineer
Moscow, Russia
• Addressed a number of legal issues by developing from scratch and launching a service to control actions with various types of
user consents. Designed the service to be usable from other company’s microservices and front-end widgets.
• Increased the speed of the sensitive mortgage cases by 50% by implementing, shipping and supporting the services that
automate the process. Utilised message-driven architecture to provide high availability and reliability.
• Prototyped, organized, and led the development of an ETL-based advisory system to track skills of engineers in the company,
bus factor of their teams, and other metrics. The system improved involvement of engineers, dev leads and CTO in the
development process.
• Created a performance testing process from scratch. It is used to simulate the expected load and thus to keep our services 99.99%
available during peak load. Successfully combined jMeter, APM, cloud and monitoring tools to reach the goal.
• Curated development of the corporate portal Java team, applied microservices approach to deliver new features faster and
safer. Mentored 2 back-end developers.
• Collaborated with back-end & front-end developers of other teams to design REST API contracts. Communicated directly with
CTO and Team Leaders, worked with feedback. Applied clean code/architecture best practices on work.
Sberbank-Technologies JSC
October 2015 – June 2018
Leading Software Engineer
Moscow, Russia
• Eliminated possibilities of fraud and saved company millions of rubles by introducing blockage of working from two
windows. Fixed security issues by updating the encryption library.
• Implemented individual currency conversion and interest rates features, that attracted hundreds of new customers and
increased loyalty of existing ones. Gained experience with Enterprise Serial Bus architecture for integration with other systems.
• Boosted overall development productivity by extracting a service from the monolithic application with support of a
dedicated DB and distributed transactions support.
• Successfully migrated functionality of the Deposit subsystem of the Bank Offices and Online Banking systems to
microservices achieving 30% faster feature delivery. Analyzed, and fixed bugs and incidents on both front-end and
back-end.
• Sped up the development lifecycle by at least 20% and decreased the number of bugs by introducing git-flow with
mandatory code review and Kotlin into the project. Co-authored, supported, and advocated the team agreement of
architecture, API designing, and code style.
• Interviewed over 30 candidates for Java developer position. Onboarded, and mentored 3 new hires.
AVP-Technology LLC
October 2014 – June 2015
Software Engineer
Moscow, Russia
• Added new features, found and fixed bugs, refactored more than 200000 lines of unstructured and difficult-to-maintain legacy
code. Updated and structured the project documentation.
Open-Retail LLC
June 2013 – March 2014
Web Developer
Moscow, Russia
• Developed and launched 3 Internet shopping websites.
• Created a package solution for a CMS e-commerce websites consisted of cross-platform mobile app and its back-end.
Education
Peoples’ Friendship University Of Russia
September 2011 – July 2013
Master’s Degree in Control in Technical Systems
Moscow, Russia
• A 3rd-degree diploma was received for winning the contest with a paper called ”Cloud computing for solving control
problems with the help of network operator method”
Peoples’ Friendship University Of Russia
September 2007 – July 2011
Bachelor’s Degree in Automation and Control
Moscow, Russia
Technical Skills

Languages, frameworks: Java, Kotlin, Spring, Micronaut, MERN
Monitoring:
Grafana,
InfluxDB,
Prometheus
Persistence: PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, JOOQ, JPA, JDBC
Build,
tools:
Maven,
Gradle;
Git,
IntelliJ
IDEA
Integration: Feign, RestTemplate, RabbitMQ, IBM MQ
CI/CD, Testing: Jenkins, Docker, K8S; JUnit, Mockito
