Yan.doe@gmail.com
Senior Backend Developer
https://www.linkedin.com/in/Yan-doe
Yan Doe
Professional Experience
123 Technology Services
Some town1
Senior Java Developer, online advertising platform
Sep 2020 ‑ present
• Within a team, designed and developed an online advertising platform for the Belgian media company.
• Implemented integration with a payment provider and internal financial system.
• Reduced production deployment cycle from 2 month to 2 weeks.
• Was involved in interviewing, mentoring, and onboarding activities.
Primary technologies: Java 11, AWS, Quarkus, Postgres, Terraform
345 company
Some town2
Java Developer, risk management solution for car loans
Mar 2019 ‑ Aug 2020
• Designed and implemented online service for one of top 20 world bank that is using by car dealers in Germany. The product automates the
process of getting credits for cars and has all necessary services within one platform for car dealers and bank managers.
• Implemented push notifications system sending tens of types of notifications to internal and external users. The system increased user engagement.
• Implemented integration with the archive system. The integration reduced the time of loan application processing by 10%
Primary technologies: Java 11, Spring, ActiveMQ, Postgres, Kubernetes
789 Systems
Some town3
Java Developer, financial risk analysis solution
Sep 2017 ‑ Mar 2019
• Developed a solution for getting information about the ultimate beneficial owners of the business. The product became a part of the financial risk
analysis platform.
• Production environment configuration and deployment.
• Implemented integration with an external system for getting information about company owners.
Primary technologies: Java 8, Guice, AWS, Jenkins
Super company
Some town4
Java Developer, ERP implementation project
Sep 2016 ‑ Dec 2017
• Integrated ERP system with internal logistic services.
• Developed an online dashboard for predicting the number of parcels that will come to the logistic hub in the time range.
• General debugging, bug fixing, and refactoring.
Education
Sometown National Technical Univeristy
Some town5, country
Master’s degree, Economic cybernetics
2008 ‑ 2013
AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate
Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer
